The President:
I'm here in Detroit visiting
workers at a GM plant in the
heart of a resurgent
American auto industry.
And I brought a guest with me
-- President Lee of South Korea.
We're here because this week,
Congress passed landmark trade
agreements with
countries like Korea,
and assistance for American
workers that will be a big win
for our economy.
These trade agreements will
support tens of thousands of
American jobs.
And we'll sell more Fords,
Chevys and Chryslers abroad
stamped with three proud
words -- "Made in America."
So it was good to see Congress
act in a bipartisan way on
something that will help create
jobs at a time when millions of
Americans are still out
of work and need them now.
But that's also why it was so
disappointing to see Senate
Republicans obstruct
the American Jobs Act,
even though a majority of
Senators voted "yes" to advance
this jobs bill.
We can't afford
this lack of action.
And there's no reason for it.
Independent economists say that
this jobs bill would give the
economy a jumpstart and lead to
nearly two million new jobs.
Every idea in the jobs bill is
the kind of idea both parties
have supported in the past.
The majority of the American
people support the proposals in
this jobs bill.
And they want action from their
elected leaders to create jobs
and restore some security for
the middle class right now.
You deserve to see your hard
work and responsibility rewarded
-- and you certainly deserve
to see it reflected in the folks
you send to Washington.
But rather than listen to you
and put folks back to work,
Republicans in the House spent
the past couple of days picking
partisan ideological fights.
They're seeing if they can
roll back clean air and
water protections.
They're stirring up fights over
a woman's right to make her own
health care choices.
They're not focused on the
concrete actions that will put
people back to work right now.
Well, we're going to
give them another chance.
We're going to give them another
chance to spend more time
worrying about your jobs
than keeping theirs.
Next week, I'm urging Members
of Congress to vote on putting
hundreds of thousands of
teachers back in the classroom,
cops back on the streets, and
firefighters back on the job.
And if they vote "no" on that,
they'll have to tell you why.
They'll have to tell you why
teachers in your community don't
deserve a paycheck again.
They'll have to tell your kids
why they don't deserve to have
their teacher back.
They'll have to tell you why
they're against commonsense
proposals that would help
families and strengthen our
communities right now
and in the long term.
In the coming weeks, we'll have
them vote on the other parts of
the jobs bill -- putting
construction workers back on the
job rebuilding our
roads and bridges;
providing tax cuts for small
businesses that hire our
veterans; making sure that
middle-class families don't see
a tax hike next year and
that the unemployed and our
out-of-work youth have a chance
to get back in the workforce and
earn their piece of
the American Dream.
That's what's at stake.
Putting people back to work.
Restoring economic security
for the middle class.
Rebuilding an economy where
hard work is valued and
responsibility is rewarded --
an economy that's built to last.
And I'm going to travel all over
the country over the next few
weeks so that we can remind
Congress that that's the most
important thing.
Because there's still time
to create jobs and grow our
economy right now.
There's still time for Congress
to do the right thing.
We just need to act.
Thanks.